Date: 25 Feb 1995 21:53:44 GMT
From: gjones@tcet.unt.edu (Greg Jones WD5IVD /999999)
Subject: TAPR 1.1.9 firmware?

1.1.9 is available from the TAPR office for $15 (with book) not
including shipping or handling.  I think s/h is $2.00 within the US.

Full order information is on ftp.tapr.org as well as being available
from listserv@tapr.org.

We are in discussion with the firmware provider to see about making it
available on Internet later this year, but there is a chance that it
will only be made available in EPROM form from the TAPR office.

Selling 1.1.9 EPROMS is one of the few ways TAPR brings in money to
support its various activities....while making it available on Internet
quickly is a benefit, it then removes any income source from TAPR.

The question I have been thinking about for a long time -- How do you
make information available on the Internet, but make people understand
that it costs money to create and generate the information.....that if
they then get the information, they really should be supporting the
group that works on providing it ?

I'll include the information on 1.1.9 below along with info on TAPR
Internet access.

Cheers - Greg, W5IVD

-----

TAPR TNC-2 Release 1.1.9 Notes

(c) 1994 InfoMotion, Inc.  All rights reserved.  Permission granted to
TAPR, its TNC-2 OEM licensees, InfoMotion licensees, and all licensed
radio amateurs, to reproduce the contents herein, provided this notice
and the contents of this document are reproduced intact.


General

The checksum for TAPR release 1.1.9 containing the KISS module is $2D.
InfoMotion licensees will not receive the KISS module; the checksum will
therefore be some value other than $2D.

Release 1.1.9 incorporates these new features:

o -	Modified P-Persistence
o -	Enhanced monitor modefiltering
o -	Support for Dallas Semiconductor RSmartwatchS (tm) socket
o -	NMEA beaconing mode
o -	CW identification in FSK using the onboard packet modem

And these changes:

o -	The pound sign ASCII character "#" is allowed in callsigns
o -	The "OUT" command installed in version 1.1.8 is removed
o -	In addition to identification at 9.5 minute intervals, the HID
function transmits an identification packet upon incoming connect
acknowledge, outgoing connect attempt success, disconnection, and
cancellation of outgoing connect attempts.
o -	DWAIT is now applied to digipeated and non-digipeated packets
o -	Delay equivalent to the current DCD backoff time is applied after
transmit release to prevent multiple transmissions with extremely small
delays in between

Corrections, bug reports, enhancement requests and the like should be
directed by mail to:

	InfoMotion, Inc.
	425 Seagrass Avenue
	Sebastian, Florida 32958   USA

	Internet:  imotion@iu.net
	Compuserve:75006.702


NMEA Beacon Function

TNC-2 now incorporates a dedicated mode enabling the broadcast of one or
two NMEA version 2.00 (and compatible) sentences to the UNPROTO address.
When placed in NMEA mode with a non-zero value in the NMEABCN parameter,
the TNC broadcasts the most recently received sentences received from
the attached NMEA talker on the rads are permitted with the exception of
identification, beacon, CTEXT, and mailbox data (*if supported).

NMEA devices provide an ASCII output at 4800 baud, 8/N/1, consisting of
one or more types of sentences containing various types of data.  Most
commonly these data contain navigation fixes.  For example, the authorUs
global positioning system receiver (Garmin model GPS-55AVD) generates
sentences containing the receiverUs longitude and latitude (fix), time
of the fix, groundspeed, waypoint da
An example:
$GPRMC,034523,Y,02754.31,N,08023.03,W,1.5,035,031294,4,W*23<cr><lf>

Meaning:
R$GPRMCS - Indicates the type of data (RMC-minimum recommended GPS
sentence)

034523 - UTC hh/mm/ss
Y - data valid
02754.31,N - longitude
08023.03,W - latitude
1.5 - groundpseed
035 - Track made good over the ground (degrees true)
031294 - date ddmmyy
4,W - magnetic variation, West
23 - checksum (ignored by the TNC)

(Note that this example sentence was not actually generated by the unit
and the checksum is probably wrong)

The TNC automatically ignores the linefeed character - it will not be
broadcast.

Please note that the sentences are sent in the non-protocol mode, thus
there is a distinct possiblity that the intended recipient may not
receive the broadcast.  Users desiring a gauranteed link should NOT use
this new mode and should continue to utilize the TNC in connected mode.


NOTES:
o -	To enable NMEA compatability, the TNC should be configured for 4800
baud, 8 bit, no parity operation.

o -	NMEA defines a balanced RS-422 interface.  A particular NMEA device
may or may not function with the TNC-2Us RS-232 interface.  In the
perfect world, everyone would attach the devices with an RS-422<>RS-232
converter, and the author recommends that one be used.  THE USER
THEREFORE ASSUMES THE ENTIRE RISK OF ATTACHING THE RS-422 NMEA DEVICE TO
THE TNC-2 RS-232 PORT, including permanent damage to the NMEA device, or
the TNC, or both.


Modified P-Persistance

P-persistance is a channel sharing technique that has gained great favor
in the TCP/IP world.  A modified form of P-persistance It is now
included in TAPR TNC-2 as an alternative to priorized acknowledgements
and DWAIT.

Modified P-persistance relies on two principles to achieve a more
equitable sharing of the common frequency.  First,  when the TNC waits a
random multiple of DWAIT after hearing another station before it
transmits.  The upper limit of the random value is to prevent frequency
monopolization by stations placing unusually heavy demands on the
frequency, as with the case of a file transfer.  Modified P-persistance
increases the likelihood that a station with higher priority traffic can
acquire the channel.

The second way modified P-persistance promotes channel sharing is by
gradually increasing the wait time when the TNC executes retry
transmissions.

Modified P-persistance as implemented in TNC-2 differs from standard
P-persistance in that acknowledged retumulate.  After a retry is
successfully acknowledged the TNC reverts to the shorter delay that
assumes a perfect channel.  Another difference is that the retry delay
is applied only to connections on stream A.

Modified P-persistance is selected by setting PPERSIST to ON and
ACKPRIOR to OFF.


Commands

CWID ON|OFF	default: OFF

FSK cw identification is now available.  When CWID is ON, the string in
the IDTEXT parameter is send at 20 WPM in international morse code at
the times described for the HID command.  If text is not present in the
IDTEXT parameteWhen using the CW IDer, the HID function (HDLC
identification) must be set to OFF or CW identifier may not
automatically be transmitted at the 9 1/2 minute interval.

Because current regulations do not require a morse identifier within the
United States, users are requested to leave CWID set to the defaulted
OFF position lest they burden the channel with unecessary
identification.


MNONPRIN ON|OFF	default: ON

The TNC will examine the contents of each monitored packet for
nonprinting ASCII characters and discard the entire packet if at least
one is detected.  Nonprinting characters means any ASCII character less
than the space character except for BELL, LF, and CR, and the DEL
character.  The test occurs after masking off the high order bit.

By setting MNONPRIN to OFF, and in concert with MNONAX25 OFF, the TNC
will filter nearly all screen-garbage inducing monitored packets.


NMEABCN  n	default: 0

	n	0-254 in 10-second intervals

NMEABCN parameter defines the 10-second interval between broadcasts of
the one or two most recently received NMEA sentences to the UNPROTO
address =.  If none of the selected sentences (see NMEAFLT1 and NMEAFLT2
for information regarding the selection) were received since the last
power on, no broadcast is made.  Normal TNC operation is enabled when
the pin the selected CONMODE.  CONMODE *must* be set to CONVERSE,
SENDPAC to $0d, and CR set ON (all defaults) for the NMEA parsing to
work correctly.


NMEAFLT1 sssss	default: empty
NMEAFLT2 sssss

	sssss	5 character NMEA preamble defining the device and sentence
types.  The parameter must be coded exclusive of the leading R$S
character.

Example:
	User desires to broadcast the GPS fix and UTC sentences
	produced by a GPS board
		cmd:NMEAFLT1 GPGGA
		NMEAFLT1 was
		cmd:NMEAFLT2 GPZDA
		NMEAFLT2 was
		cmd:

Example:
	User now only wishes to broadcast wind vector data from a
	weather station
		cmd:NMEAFLT1 WIMWV
		NMEAFLT1 was GPGGA
		cmd:NMEAFLT2 %
		NMEAFLT2 was GPZDA
		cmd:

PERSIST n	default: 8

	n	0-254

Defines the persistance, or delay, the station tolerates.  The actual
delay is a random period of time between one DWAIT period and PERSIST
DWAIT periods.  The default value is appropriate for keyboard users and
most digipeater installations.  Higher values around 16 or 24 are
appropriate for file transfers.


PPERSIST ON|OFF                                         default: OFF

PPERSIST ON enables the P-persistant function described above.  ACKPRIOR
must be turned off for this feature to function.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Periodic Announcement - TAPR Information and Internet Access

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Greetings from TAPR! 

TAPR can be reached via the Internet.  The Automated Information Server that
TAPR provides allows anyone to request information on TAPR, products,
newsletters, and lots of other files.  To find out more about this service,
send an e-mail message to listserv@tapr.org with the subject line "Request"
and the following text in the body of the message:

help                             (for a brief set of instructions)
index -all                       (for a list of all file by topic area)
list                             (for a list of TAPR Mail Groups)
get tapr taprinfo.txt            (or info on TAPR)

In the above message example, "help" retrieves a brief set of instructions
for info, "index -all" retrieves a list of available files by topic and
"taprinfo.txt" retrieves a text file containing information on TAPR and what
TAPR is all about.  If you want to retrieve several text files with one
message, use a separate line for each "get filename" request.

-----

Membership:

  Membership in TAPR includes a subscription to the quarterly published
Packet Status Register newsletter.  PSR has been published since 1982 and is
recognized as an authoritative source for up-to-date user and technical
information on packet radio.  Much of the material in PSR is timeless.  Back
issues may be obtained from the TAPR office.  Membership in TAPR is $15 for
one year.  In Canada and Mexico membership is $18 and outside North America
they are $25.


             Join the amateur digital-revolution -- Join TAPR!

-----

Special Interest Groups

  TAPR maintains several SIGs in various areas.  To get the latest list of
SIG groups, send an e-mail message to listserv@tapr.org with the subject
line "Request" and the following text in the body of the message:

list                             (for list of mail groups on TAPR.ORG)
 
  To request the information on any mail group, send an e-mail message to
listserv@tapr.org and in the message text include:

information listname           (where listname is the name of the mail group)

  When you are ready to subscribe, send e-mail to listserv@tapr.org with the
following command in the message text:

subscribe <list> <your name>

  List should be the name of the mail list you want to join and Your Name
should be both your First and Last Name.

Current SIGs include:
    NETSIG         Regional Networking SIG
    BBSSIG         BBS SIG
    HFSIG          SIG on HF Digital Topics
    DSP-93         SIG for those that are building TAPR/AMSAT DSP-93 kits
    APRSSIG        SIG on APRS

-----

FTP users

  The TAPR Software Library is now available via anonymous FTP.  You can
access the library by ftp access to 'ftp.tapr.org' in the directory
/tapr.  Login in as 'anonymous', with a password of
'your_account@internet_address'.

-----

Packet Radio and TAPR is on the World-Wide-Web!

The series is accesible through the Packet Radio Home Page at this
URL:
        http://www.tapr.org/tapr

What's here?  A page of links (the Home Page), the TAPR Home Page, a page of
Packet Pioneers and Contacts, a hypertext packet primer and FAQ, and more.

Thanks to Howie, N2WX, for his support and invaluable contributions of
the TAPR page.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tucson Amateur Packet Radio
8987-309 E. Tanque Verde Road #337
Tucson, AZ 85749-9399
817-383-0000 (Tuesday - Friday 9:00-11:00am, 3:00-5:00pm CT)
             (15:00-17:00, 21:00-23:00 UTC)
817-566-2544 FAX

Internet: TAPR@TAPR.ORG
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
